[Music]
[Applause]
we decided to trim the patio pond with
wood now typically in an outdoor
environment I'm going to choose redwood
come to find out my client doesn't like
redwood he wanted a light color so we
chose pine it's easy to come by it's
affordable the trick is it's sensitive
to elements it doesn't want water on it
so of course we're going to have to put
some sealant on here but got me thinking
of a cool element that we could do is we
could make it to where when you come
around the corner
this patio pond is going to look
elevated I want to elevate this off the
ground say an inch and a half to two
inches I don't want to see the legs that
are touching the floor so it's going to
look like the whole thing's floating I
got a couple more cuts to make and then
we're gonna start screwing it all
together and we'll show you how to do it
I want to give you a quick explanation
about how the frame is going to wrap
around the patio pond there's a couple
different ways you can do it there's a
log-cabin approach where these two
pieces come like that you see how I'm
joining these together here and then the
next one would come inside so you would
see a joint here and not see a joint
here and then the same thing would
happen across the back well since that
side of the feature is going to be
covered with plants and this side is
going to be covered with plants
I want the whole face of the feature not
to have any seams so I've taken the time
to measure all the way across and this
is going to be one continuous piece and
the seams are going to come from behind
this section so that's what I've done
when I cut all the pieces around there
now I explained I don't want to see any
hardware when you walk around the corner
and see this feature all the hardware is
going to be done from behind so I made
these cleats and these cleats are what
we're going to use I'm going to screw
through the back of this wood so when we
stay
in it you're not gonna see how the thing
was put together I got a couple more
cleats to make I do want to show you
since I'm dealing with a little bit more
sensitive wood I have a little pilot
hole well drill a little pilot hole like
so and then I have my little impact gun
here so by doing the the pilot hole
first it's going to make for a really
clean connection and it'll won't make
this crack as easily so if you're using
a treated wood a lot of times if it's
kiln dried you go to put it together
like that it'll crack but if you put a
pilot hole in there first will come
together nice and clean like that so now
all the cleats are put together we can
start putting together the big frame so
I'm going to flush these ends up now the
Laguna prefabricated ponds that I chose
that are exactly 18 inches so we used
one by tens gives us two nine and a half
inch pieces or so gives us 18 and a half
so I have about a half inch play so I
have this thing lined up nice and even
now it's time for me to drop this cleat
on here and then I can drill this
together now I'm going to pilot this
this is the back of the of the feature
the inside I just barely want to pilot
that I don't want to go too far in
because I don't want to see the screws
protruding through
so just barely get a pilot going and I
don't want to bury these two deep either
because I don't want that I want to pop
through the other side okay so this
piece is complete as I turn it around
you'll notice we won't see any of the
hardware sticking through clean so now
it's time to extended long boards and
connect them all together we have most
of the frame put together by now but
we're going to work on the face of the
whole feature at this point so I've
taken the liberty to pick out the most
interesting pieces of wood with unique
knots in them because the varnish is
going to be clear it's going to be a
medium to light stain so you're going to
see right through this and I figured
we'd pick out the interesting stuff so
when you come around it'll give it some
character so this is where we're going
to put this one together right now all
right I just about have this wrapped up
I do have a couple more boards to put on
and then before we put the tubs in here
insert it into place we're going to
stain this and we're going to seal it
and protect it from the elements I'm
Eric Triplett the pond digger thanks for
watching
yeah
[Music]
and desert
[Applause]
[Music]
Oh
you
[Music]